

This a model from the article:  
**Biophysical characteristics of the pig kidney Na+/glucose cotransporter SGLT2 reveal a common mechanism for SGLT1 and SGLT2.**   
Mackenzie B, Loo DD, Panayotova-Heiermann M, Wright EM. _J Biol Chem_ 1996 Dec
20;271(51):32678-83 [8955098](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8955098) ,  
**Abstract:**   
The Na+-dependent, low affinity glucose transporter SGLT2 cloned from pig
kidney is 76% identical (at the amino acid level) to its high affinity
homologue SGLT1. Using two-microelectrode voltage clamp, we have characterized
the presteady-state and steady-state kinetics of SGLT2 expressed in Xenopus
oocytes. The kinetic properties of the steady-state sugar-evoked currents as a
function of external Na+ and alpha-methyl-D-glucopyranoside (alphaMG)
concentrations were consistent with an ordered, simultaneous transport model
in which Na+ binds first. Na+ binding was voltage-dependent and saturated with
hyperpolarizing voltages. Phlorizin was a potent inhibitor of the sugar-evoked
currents (KiPz approximately 10 microM) and blocked an inward Na+ current in
the absence of sugar. SGLT2 exhibited Na+-dependent presteady-state currents
with time constants 3-7 ms. Charge movements were described by Boltzmann
relations with apparent valence approximately 1 and maximal charge transfer
approximately 11 nC, and were reduced by the addition of sugar or phlorizin.
The differences between SGLT1 and SGLT2 were that (i) the apparent affinity
constant (K0.5) for alphaMG (approximately 3 mM) was an order of magnitude
higher for SGLT2; (ii) SGLT2 excluded galactose, suggesting discrete sugar
binding; (iii) K0.5 for Na+ was lower in SGLT2; and (iv) the Hill coefficient
for Na+ was 1 for SGLT2 but 2 for SGLT1. Simulations of the six-state kinetic
model previously proposed for SGLT1 indicated that many of the kinetic
properties observed in SGLT2 are expected by simply reducing the Na+/glucose
coupling from 2 to 1.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Mackenzie B, Loo DD, Panayotova-Heiermann M,
Wright EM. () - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/a499a7082706164315ad07feff408850)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Jonna Terkildsen**   
j.terkildsen@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

